docs/README.md, before:

# bank-csv

Handle CSV files from a few German banks and PayPal.

## Supported CSV files

| Bank                                     | Where to get the CSV                                                                      |
|------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [N26](https://n26.com/)                  | [Downloads](https://app.n26.com/downloads)                                                |
| [PayPal](https://www.paypal.com/)        | [Activity report](https://www.paypal.com/reports/dlog)                                    |
| (coming soon) [DKB](https://www.dkb.de/) | [DKB Konto Umsätze](https://www.ib.dkb.de/banking/finanzstatus/kontoumsaetze?$event=init) | 

PayPal has (as I found so far) 2 different CSV file formats.

This project uses [polars](https://github.com/pola-rs/polars) to read CSV files directly by column names.
It's a heavier dependency, but it's easier to support different CSV formats without being super strict about column order and presence.

## Installation

Install directly from GitHub:

```bash
cargo install --git https://github.com/andreoliwa/bank-csv-rs 
```

This package is not yet published on [crates.io](https://crates.io/).

## Usage

Merge CSV files from a few German banks and PayPal into a single CSV file.

```bash
bank-csv merge ~/Downloads/import-*.csv
```

This will generate `Transactions*.csv` files in the `~/Downloads` directory, with transactions sorted by date and grouped by month.

Type `bank-csv --help` for more details.

```bash
❯ bank-csv --help
Handle CSV files from a few German banks and PayPal

Usage: bank-csv <COMMAND>

Commands:
  merge  Merge one or more bank CSV files and split them into multiple files, one for each month
  help   Print this message or the help of the given subcommand(s)

Options:
  -h, --help     Print help
  -V, --version  Print version
```

## Roadmap (TODO)

- [ ] Add support for DKB CSV files
- [ ] Generate OFX (or QIF) files to be imported into [GnuCash](https://www.gnucash.org/)

Commit message:

feat: accept output dir as argument, default to download dir

docs/README.md, after:

# bank-csv

Handle CSV files from a few German banks and PayPal.

## Supported CSV files

| Bank                                     | Where to get the CSV                                                                      |
|------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [N26](https://n26.com/)                  | [Downloads](https://app.n26.com/downloads)                                                |
| [PayPal](https://www.paypal.com/)        | [Activity report](https://www.paypal.com/reports/dlog)                                    |
| (coming soon) [DKB](https://www.dkb.de/) | [DKB Konto Umsätze](https://www.ib.dkb.de/banking/finanzstatus/kontoumsaetze?$event=init) | 

PayPal has (as I found so far) 2 different CSV file formats.

This project uses [polars](https://github.com/pola-rs/polars) to read CSV files directly by column names.
It's a heavier dependency, but it's easier to support different CSV formats without being super strict about column order and presence.

## Installation

Install directly from GitHub:

```bash
cargo install --git https://github.com/andreoliwa/bank-csv-rs 
```

This package is not yet published on [crates.io](https://crates.io/).

## Usage

Merge CSV files from a few German banks and PayPal into a single CSV file.

```bash
bank-csv merge /path/to/import-*.csv
```

`EUR` transactions are filtered by default. You can choose a different currency with the `--currency` option.

```bash
bank-csv merge -c USD /path/to/import-*.csv
```

This will generate `bank-csv-transactions*.csv` files in the download directory of the computer, with transactions sorted by date and grouped by month.

Type `bank-csv --help` for more details.

```bash
❯ bank-csv --help
Handle CSV files from a few German banks and PayPal

Usage: bank-csv <COMMAND>

Commands:
  merge  Merge one or more bank CSV files and split them into multiple files, one for each month
  help   Print this message or the help of the given subcommand(s)

Options:
  -h, --help     Print help
  -V, --version  Print version
```

## Roadmap (TODO)

- [ ] Add support for DKB CSV files
- [ ] Generate OFX (or QIF) files to be imported into [GnuCash](https://www.gnucash.org/)
